Alright, let's get started.

Good afternoon everyone and welcome to my presentation. My name is Tom and today, you are going to learn some basic information on the topic of
oxide scales and their role in steel industry, which is also kind of the topic of my bachelor thesis. I know, it is quite a complex topic and probably most
of you have never heard about this issue before. You are welcome to ask any questions at the end.


I will try to keep this talk on a basic level, so at first I will introduce you to the topic of oxide scales mentioning basic definitions and characteristics,
secondly we will have a look at the reason why the role of oxide scales is really purely negative and finally, I'll end the presentation with highlighting the most
efficient ways of facing this problem.

When the phrase "oxidation of a metal product" is mentioned, I think the vast majority of us think about rust first, is that right? However, in this case,
oxide scales or sometimes called mill scales or just scale layer is a thin layer of iron oxides, which form at very high temperatures above 800°C when processing
steel. The formation is caused by the reaction of hot steel with the oxygen contained in the surrounding atmosphere. And since this can never be avoided, the
formation of oxide scales is thus inevitable. (Describing pictures...)...Primary scale formed at the beginning of steel-production process, there are also
so called secondary and tertiary scales, which form in the latter stages in processing of hot steel.

No matter what type of oxide scales on steel we talk about, the layer always consists of the basic sections, as you can see in the picture on your right. These
are wustite (wuastajt), magnetite and hematite. But hold on, it's not that easy. Since there are many random factors which vary in hot steel production, including
the duration in which steel is subjected to surrounding atmosphere, the temperature of surrounding atmosphere and for example potential alloying elements contained
in steel, these factors can extensively change the composition of an oxide layer. Mentioning those alloying elements, these can cause formation of other oxide layers
in the interface between wustite and steel substrate, thus helping form very complex structures.


OK, let's get more practical, right? So why do we need to bother with something like a few milimeters thin layer of oxides? Well, here is the first reason: since the
thermal conductivity of oxide scale layer is much lower than that of steel, the heat transfer during spray cooling process in hot steel production is largely
influenced. So if we want to optimize the parameters of spraying system to reach desired quality of produced steel, we need to have this fact in mind and we
need to include the role ox oxide scales in research, when creating models and simulations of these processes. There has already been research conducted in this
problem and it has been shown that the role of scales can not be neglected (unfortunately).

It's quite similiar also in the process of hot rolling, that the impact of oxide scale is purely negative. In this case, due to variable mechanical and thermal
properties of oxide scale layer, there has been an effort to optimize hot rolling process from the points of view of friction and heat transfer. It is also known
that rough and hard structure of these layers play an important role both in deteriorated tool wear and steel surface quality.

As you could see, scale layers on steel are a real struggle in this field of industry. However, if you can remember as I said, the formation of these structures is
inevitable, so we need to find another ways how to face this problem. One of them is process of so called descaling, usually implemented in production.
During this process, the layers are removed from the surface, most usually by using high pressure water jets which hit the oxidized steel surface and the forces
will make sure the scales are removed. Another types of descaling include mechanical descaling, by using steel brushes which "clean" the surface or chemical descaling,
but this one is not very eco-friendly, so it is rather replaced by hydraulic or chemical ones. There is also an effort to optimize individual processes in
steel production to reach a goal of perfect-quality steel products and last but not least, further research should be conducted in investigation of oxide-scale
structure properties and understanding the process of formation of these layers. It is quite a challenging task to deal with, but that is what research is about, right?

Ok, that is all from me and I thank you for your attention.






